# Client Server Architecture

Most applications we use today follow this architecture.

1.  The app itself is ***the client / front-end*** part.
2.  The client needs to connect to ***the server / back-end*** to get or save data.
3.  The communication between these two happens using ***the HTTP protocol***, the same protocol that powers the web.

On the server we expose certain services that we can access via the HTTP protocol. The client can call these services by sending ***HTTP requests***.

# REST

**Re**presentational **S**tate **T**ransfer
It is a convention for building HTTP services.

We use simple HTTP protocol principles to provide support to ***CRUD*** operations.

1.  Create Data
2.  Read Data
3.  Update Data
4.  Delete Data

## Exposing services

We expose services like this:

1.  Protocol: `https://`
2.  Domain of the app: ex. `vidly.com`
3.  We can use `/api`. This is not compulsory but it is a good convention companies use to expose their rest services. They include the word api somewhere in the address.
4.  We call the resource. In the Rest world we expose our resources on various end-points.
    For example:
    `http://vidly.com/api/customers`

All the operations around an end-point would be done by sending an HTTP request to it.
The type of this request determines the kind of the operation done in this end-point.

# HTTP Requests

Every HTTP request has a ***Verb / Method*** that determines its type.

## Standard HTTP methods

1.  `GET`: Getting Data
2.  `POST`: Creating Data
3.  `PUT`: Updating Data
4.  `DELETE`: Deleting Data

## Working with methods

### GET

We can get data about a series of resources using:

```
GET /api/resources
```

This returns an array list of all the objects in that collection.
In order to get information about a single resource we can use that resources' id:

```
GET /api/resources/1
```

### PUT

In order to update a resource we must use that items id and also send the data we are updating in our requests body:

```
PUT /api/resources/1
{name: ''}
```

### DELETE

To delete a resource from resources we must use its id:

```
DELETE /api/resources/id
```

Here we don't need body.

### POST

In order to create a resource. Since we are not dealing with a specific resource, we don't need an id here. Because we are dealing with a collection of resources and we want to add to it.
Also we need to send information about the resource we are creating in the body of the request.

```
POST /api/resources
{name: ''}
```