# What Is Express

Express is a light weight framework built on top of nore environment. It is a package that we must install using npm in order to use.

# Using Express

## Setting up Express

In our project folder, we initialize a node project:
`npm init --y`
and install the express package:
`npm i express`

Now we create an `index.js` file and load the express module in it:

```javascript
const express = require('express');
```

This returns a function.
After calling this function, it retruns an object of type express. so we create an express object and store it:

```javascript
const app = express();
```

This object has a lot of useful methods like:

```javascript
app.get()
app.post()
app.put()
app.delete()
```

All these methods correspond to HTTP methods. We can handle an end-point using any of these methods.

## Using HTTP methods

### Handling routes

Get method takes two arguments.

1.  The path or the URL or an end-point
2.  A callback function with two arguments (req, res) ***Also called a route handler***

```javascript
app.get('/', (req, res) =>{
    res.send('Hello world!');
});
```

The [Express Documents](https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#req) has all the methods for the request object that we can use.

### Listening to routes

To listen on a given port we call the `listen` function. It takes two parameters:

1.  Port number
2.  *(optional)* A callback function that will be called when the application starts listening on a given port.

```javascript
app.listen(3000, () => console.log('listening on port 3000...'));
```

### Environment variables

When deploying an application to a hosting environment the port is dynamically assigned. We use environment variables. In node applications we have an environment variable called `PORT`.
An environment variable is a variable that's part of the environment in which a process runs. Its value is set outside the application. In order to use `PORT` we need to read its value. We use the `process` object:

`process.env.<environemnt variable>`

So instead of giving a manual port number we store the PORT variable and use that:

`const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;`

The OR statement is used in case of the variable not being set in the environment. So if we Don't receive an environment variable we use 3000 instead.

### Setting Environment variables

We set environment variables using the `export` command in the terminal:
`export PORT = 5000`

### Route parameters

Route parameters provide essential values.
In order to read a value instead of a list of resources, we use parameters. So in our HTTP methods when using a route we use a parameter and get that parameter using `req.params`:

```javascript
app.get('/course/:id', (req, res) => {
   res.send(req.params.id);
});
```

In the code above, `:id` is a parameter and can be any other name but by convention we use id. But Whatever name we use, we must use that in the `req.params` property as well.

***Examples:***

```javascript
app.get('/courses/posts/:year/:month', (req, res) => {
    res.send(req.params);
});
```

### Query string parameter

Query string parameters provide additional data to back-end services.
Reading query parameters:
`res.send(req.query);`
query parameters are stores in an object with key value pairs.

For the code in the example section by entering the following URL in the browser:

`http://localhost:3000/api/courses/posts/2015/6?sortBy=name`

we get the following result for `req.query`:

```
{	
sortBy:	"name"
}
```

and this for `req.params`:

```
{
year:	"2015"
month:	"6"
}
```
