# Middleware

A middleware function takes a request object and either returns a response to the client or passes control to another middleware function.
The route handler functions we have used so far(`(req, res) => {}`) are examples of middleware functions.
Middleware functions that return a response to the client, end the req, res cycle.
Another example of a middleware function is `app.use(express.json());`. This functions reads the body of the request and if there is a json object in the body, it will set the `req.body` property.

## Request processing pipeline

When sending a request to the client, the request goes through the Request Processing Pipeline.
In this pipeline we have one or more middleware functions. Each one either returns a response to the client or passes control to another function.

Express has built-in middleware functions andwe can also create custom ones.

# Custom Middleware Function

We define custom middleware functions like this:

```javascript
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
    // Function body
    
    next(); // Passing the control to the next function
});
```

The `next` parameter references the next middleware in the pipeline.
The `next()` function passes the control to the next function. if we don't use this function, our request will not be passed and will be a hanging request.

***Note***: Middleware functions are called in sequence.

## Clean coding
When writing a custom middleware function it's a good practice to keep the function definition in a different file rather than in `index.js`. We can create another file for the function and define it there. Then load it to `index.js` and install it by calling `app.use(<funcName>);`.
```javascript
// Logger func in logger.js
function log(req, res, next){
    console.log('logging...');
    next();
}

module.exports = log;
```
Then we load it using:
`const logger = require('./logger');`
And use it:
`app.use(logger);`

# Built-in Middleware Functions 
We have used a built-in middleware before, `express.json()`.
This middleware function is part of [bodyParser](https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser). 

## bodyParser.json()
Returns middleware that only parses json. The options are:
* `strict` - only parse objects and arrays
* `limit <1mb>` - maximum request body size
* `reviver` - passed to JSON.parse()

`express.json()` parses the body of a request and if there is a json object it will populate `req.body` property.

## bodyParser.urlencoded()
This middleware function parses incoming requests with url encoded payloads. that neans a request with a body like this: `key=value&key=value`

To load the function to our code we use: 
`app.use(express.urlencoded()`
 
When using this method like this, we will get the following error:
`body-parser deprecated undefined extended: provide extended option index.js`

We must set the extended option in objects to true:
`app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: true }));`
With this we can pass arrays and complex objects. 

## express.static()
We uset this function to server static files. We must give the function a directory in which the static files are kept. 
`app.use(express.static('public'));` 
The 'public' directory is an example and we must create the directory manually. 
When getting static files, we do not need to mention the directory in which they are held. 

# 3rd Party Middleware
The [express](https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware.html) official website, has a list of all the 3rd party middleware under: Resources - middleware
Usefull middleware are [helmet](https://github.com/helmetjs/helmet) and [morgan](https://expressjs.com/resources/middleware/morgan.html).
Morgan logs requests to the termianl. We can use the 'tiny' option to get a simple effective log. We can also configure it to write a log file. 

