# Configuration

We must be able to store configuration settings and override those settings in each environment.

## Config package

We use the `config` package in node to manage configurations. Another famous package is `rc`.

### Using config

A config file is a json file. We keep these json files in a folder called config.
First we must create a `default.json` file. Then for each environment we define a config. This package automatically reads the environment and uses the configuration for that environment. Each config file must have the name of the target environment.

We get the data in these config files using the `config.get()` command.
example:
***In development environment***

```
{
    "name": "Express app - Development",
    "mail": {
        "host": "dev-mail-server"
    }
}
```

The in `index.js`:
`console.log("Mail Server: ", config.get('mail.host'));`

## Storing important data

It is not safe to store passwords or other important data in the config files. In order to keep these data we can store them as environment variables that are kept in each environment.
for example:
`export app_password=1234`
By convention, in order to not interfere with already existing variables, we use the name of our application followed by underline and the name of the variable.
Now in our config folder we must create a file named `custom-environment-variables.json`.
***Note***: The name of this file is important as the package looks for this name.
In this file we define the mapping of configuration settings to environment variables.

```
{
    "mail": {
        "password": "app_password"
    }
}
```

Now in `index.js` we can us the password like this as an example:
`console.log("Mail Pass: ", config.get('mail.password'));`