# Debug package

We use `console.log()` a lot to debug our program. The problem with this is that when running the application, there could be a mess. Or we'll have to comment out certain logs we don't need.
There is a node package called `Debug` that helps us with this task.
With this package we will replace all the `console.log()` statements and replace them with a call a the debug function. Then we can use an environment variable to enable or disable debugging.
This way, there's no need to comment out logs. we can control which logs are going to be used at runtime.

## Using debug

First we install it:
`npm i debug`
When loading the debug package into the project, we need to give the function an argument. This argument, is an arbitrary namespace that we define for debugging. It can be anything that we want. for example:

```
const startupDebugger = require('debug')('app:startup');
const dbDebugger = require('debug')('app:db');
```

Now whenever we want to log something, depending on where we want to debug, we use the function define for that section. for example if we want to debug our application startup, we use:
`startupDebugger("log...);"`
Or if we have database work and we want to debug those:
`dbDebugger('database log...);'`

## Environment variables for debug

To use the functions defined for debugging we need to set an environment variable for debug, for example if we want to debug app startup we go to the terminal:
`export DEBUG=app:startup`
or if we don't want any logs we reset the variable:
`export DEBUG=`
If we want to see logs for multiple namespaces, we separate those namespaces with `,`:
`export DEBUG=app:startup,app:db`
And if we want to see all the logs:
`export DEBUG=app:*`

### Setting the environment variable when running the app

We can set the variable when we want to run our app. for example:
`DEBUG=app:db node index.js`