# Template engines
So far we have only sent json objects in the body of our requests. But sometimes we need to sent html files back to the client. for this purpose we use templating enginges to generate dynamic html and send them to the client
some famous templating engines are:
1. PUG(previously jade)
2. Mustache
3. EJS

Each engine has a different syntax.
 We will use PUG.
 
 # PUG
 First we must install pug.
 `npm i pug`
 
 We need to use `app.set()` to load this engine. We don't need to require it. express will internally load it.
 `app.set('view engine', 'pug');`
 
 ## Path to templates
 The default path to the templates is `./views`. We must put all our templates in this folder. 
 To override this setting we can use:
 
 `app.set('views', '<path to templates>');`
 
 ## Defining templates
 We define pug templates in files with `.pug` extensions. 
 The pug syntax is almost similar to html syntax, however we don't use `<>`; instead we define each element and its body using whitespace. think of it as python-like.
 
 ```
 html
   head
     title= title
	 body
	   h1= message
```

The variables `title` and message will be defined at runtime to be dynamically created.

## Using templates

To convert the `.pug` into regular html we need to render the html. When sending dynamic html to the client, instead of using `res.send()`, we use :
`res.render('<fileName>.pug', {title: 'title of the page', message: 'HELLO!'});`
In this method, we have two arguments:
1. The name of our view file(template file with `.pug` extension)
2. An object containing all the variables in our view file that need to be dynamically replaced.

Then we run our application and go the route and see magic happen.
