In a real world application it is not a good way to write all the application code in `index.js`.
The first thing to do is to keep every logical part of our application(every API end-point) we will have a separate file/module.
We must move all the code that refers to a specific route into another file.
We'll create a routes folder and create a file for each route.

### In the file for each route:

1.  We load the express module:
 
    `const express = require('express');`
	
    When handling routes in `index.js`, we call express as an object and we got an `app` object.
    This approach does not work when separating the routes on a separate module. Here we need to use a router.
    express has a function called router that returns a router object. So in the module file instead of creating an app object we:
	
    `const router = express.Router();`
    
	The difference from handling routes in a module files is that then we use the router instead of app to handle them.
    
2.  At the end of the module we export the router object:
    
 `module.exports = router;`
    

### In index.js:

We need to load our module here:

`const <module name> = require('./<module>');`

Once the module is loaded we need to use it:

`app.use('<Route>', <routerObject>);`

This tells express that for any routes that start with '\<Route>', use \<routerObject>.

### Final changes to module file
When using the `app.use()` method in the `index.js` file to use our module, we defined a route. that is the root route for every directory in that module. so for example:

`app.use('/api/courses', router);`

`/api/courses` is the base route in our courses module defined in `courses.js` file. So that means that in that file:

`/api/courses == /`

So we need to replace every `/api/courses` with `/`.