# Async Problem

This is an example of async code:

```javascript
 console.log('Before');
 
 const user = getUser(1);
 
 console.log(user);
 console.log('After');

 function getUser(id){
    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('Reading user...');
        return {id: id, githubUser: 'mosh'};
    }, 2000);
 }
```

In this code, we cannot use `const user =getUser(1);` because in this function we have used `setTimeout()` and returned something in that function. `setTimeout` waits for the time given(2 seconds in here) and after it is passed will execute the function inside it. So we cannot set the returned value inside `timeout` as another value at runtime for there is no value yet.

There are three patterns to deal with async code:

1.  Callbacks
2.  Promises
3.  Async/Await

# Callbacks

One way to deal with the async problem is using callback functions. A callback is a function that we are going to call when the result of an async operation is ready.
To use callback functions we have to change our function a little bit:

```js
 function getUser(id, callback){
    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('Reading user...');
        callback({id: id, githubUser: 'mosh'});
    }, 2000);
 }
```

Now this means that when the code is executed after the given time, it will return another function(callback) with the given argument(an object in this example).
We can't use this `getUser()` function like a normal function and read its value from another value(`const user = getUser(1);`). instead we need to call the function with another argument added. We define a function that takes as many arguments as the callback function did. the arguments in this function are ready to use because it will only execute when the callback function in `setTimeout()` is executed:

```js
 console.log('Before');
 
 getUser(1, (user) => {
    console.log(user)
 });
 
 console.log('After');

 function getUser(id, callback){
    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('Reading user...');
        callback({id: id, githubUser: 'mosh'});
    }, 2000);
 }
```

## Callbacks hell
When using callback functions things can pretty confusing easily. The nested structurer of callback functions makes them hard to understand sometimes and it is recalled as callback hell. 
To fix this problem, we use named functions. We saw than in callback functions we used anonymous functions a lot: `getuser(1, (user) => {});`
We can name these functions in a different code block to make the code easier to understand. For example:

```js
getUser(1, userLog);

function userLog(user){
	console.log(user);
}
```

Note that in this method, we do not call the named function(`userLog()`) but simply pass a reference to it.
By convention, the name of the reference functions will be the same as the functions they are calling inside of them. They way this works is in the arguments they are holding

# Promise
A promise is an object that holds the eventual result of an async operation. When an async operation completes it either ahs a result or an error. A promise object can be in 3 states:
1. pending
2. fulfilled
3. rejected

 