# Authenticate and Authorize

## Definitions

- ***Authentication***: Is the process of identifying if the user is who they claim they are.
- ***Authorization***: Is determining if the user has the right permission to perform the given operation.

## Implementation

- For Registration we use: POST request to /users
- For Login we use: Post /logins
    We use a POST request for login because in RESTful terms we are creating a login request. This way we can also store the login details if we want.

# Authentication

### Model

For registration we create a `User` model from a `userSchema`. A simple user schema has the properties: `{ 'name', 'email', 'password' }`.
Generally When creating a user, we can check if their email is already in our database or not.
`Joi` also has an `email()` property to check for `req.body.email` and validate if it's a valid email.

- ***Validating Passwords***: If we need password validation to force the user to create strong passwords, we can use the package `joi-password-complexity` which adds password validation to joi.

### Route

We create a POST request to the users route. First we check for the `req.body.email` in the database to see if the user already exists. If not, we'll create a new user.

- ***Lodash***
    We can use the lodash package to add utilities and more functionality to javascript and typescript.

We can use the `pick()` method from lodash to create a new user. This method creates and object with selected columns given in an array.
We use this method for creating a user and sending a user object to the client without sending the password.

```JS
const user = new User(_.pick(req.body, ['name', 'email', 'password']));

await user.save();

res.send(_.pick(user, ['_id', 'name', 'email']));
```

### Hashing Passwords

It is a very insecure and bad practice to store user passwords in plain text. We need to hash the passwords.
We can use the `bcrypt` package to hash the passwords.
The following is a demonstration of how `bcrypt` works:

```JS
const bcrypt = require('bcrypt');

async function run(){
        const salt = await bcrypt.genSalt(10);
        const hashed = await bcrypt.hash('1234', salt);
        console.log(salt);
        console.log(hashed);
}

run();
```

A `salt` is a text added to every hash to make it more secure. The `genSalt()` takes a round argument which specifies the number of the rounds we run the algorithm to generate a salt. The more rounds, the more complex the salt will be. The default value is 10.

* * *

## Json Web Token

The JWT is generated when the user is logged in and given to the client. The next time they visit the site they send this token to the server and it is used to authenticate without password.

We need to install the package:

`npm i jsonwebtoken`

then load it into our code as `jwt`:

`const jwt = require('jsonwebtoken');`

Then we need to generate a token:

`const token = jwt.sign({ _id: user._id }, 'privateKey');`

In the object passed as the first argument we store any sort of data we want. Usually an ID is enough so we can search the DB for the user. The private key should not be used in such explicit way and we need to store it in an environment variable.
Since token generation is something related to users, instead copying this code anywhere we need it, we can attach it to userSchema as a method. This way we can call this metod anytime we want and we can change it easily.
In the place we defined userSchem and before compiling a model:

```JS
userSchema.methods.generateAuthToken = function(){
    const token = jwt.sign({_id: this._id}, config.get('jwtPrivateKey'));
    return token;
}
```

We use the `config` package to do this.

1.  Create a folder called config in your project directory.
2.  Create a file named: `default.json`
3.  Create a file name: `custom-environment-variables.json`

Then add this to `default.json`:

```
{
    "jwtPrivateKey": ""
}
```

and this to custom file:

```
{
    "jwtPrivateKey": "vidly_jwtPrivateKey"
}
```

now in terminal add the custom variable:
`export vidly_jwtPrivateKey=<anystring>`

You can name the key anything. Keep in mind that when the system restarts we need to set the key again in the system.

Now to access the key we use:

`config.get('jwtPrivateKey')`

# Authorization

We need to restrict users so that only logged in users can modify data. We can create a middleware function that gets the token and verifies it then allows the data to be modified.
We create a middleware directory and create `auth.js`
First we need to get the token from the user. Tokens are stored in the header of the requests:

```Js
const token = req.header('x-auth-token');
if(!token) return res.status(401).send('No token provided.');
```

Then we need to verify the token:

`const decoded = jwt.verify(token, config.get('jwtPrivateKey'));`

The verify method throws an exception which we need to catch in a try-catch statement.
If the token was verified, we create a user object in the request and pass the control:

```Js
const jwt = require('jsonwebtoken');
const config = require('config');

module.exports = function auth(req, res, next){
    const token = req.header('x-auth-token');
    if(!token) return res.status(401).send('No token provided.');

    try{
        const decoded = jwt.verify(token, config.get('jwtPrivateKey'));
        req.user = decoded;
        next();
    }catch(ex){
        res.status(400).send('Invalid token.')
    }
}
```

In our route handlers we can call the middleware as the optional function:

`router.get('/', middleware, (req, res) => { //handling the route... });`

So on POST methods we can call the auth function before allowing the post to happen.